EXPRESSING OPINIONS

As you know, news tells you facts. Actual events that happened, are happening or will happen. 

There should be nothing ambiguous about the news because they tell things as they are. 

Let’s take a look at this headline.

Rigoletta Monteverdi elected as new president.

That is what happened. It is told as a fact.

OPINIONS

People may also express their opinion and ideas rather than pure facts.

Take a look at these opinions:

I believe Rigoletta Monteverdi will be a wonderful president

I don’t think Rigoletta Monteverdi will be a good president 

The only news is “Rigoletta Monterverdi has been elected president”.

Sarah and Michaela are expressing two different opinions here.

Remember:

News are facts. Facts are the same for everybody. 
Opinions are not facts. Opinions are not the same for everybody.

You will find both news and opinions in the media. 

Check these useful expressions. When people express opinions they use verbs such as believe, like or think:

I think the new educational law is very good.
I believe the new educational law is very good. 
I like the new educational law, it is very good. 

Some of those verbs can be used in the negative form to express an opinion:

I don’t think the new educational law is very good.
I don’t like the new educational law, it’s not very good.
I don’t believe the new educational law is very good.

People can also express that they don’t like something. Use hate or dislike.

I hate the new educational law.
I dislike the new educational law.

Another way to express opinions is by using expressions such as as I see it, from my point of view or in my opinion:

In my opinion, the new educational law is very good.
As I see it, the new educational law is very good.

You are also expressing an opinion when you say you share or don’t share somebody’s point of view. Use the verbs agree or disagree:

I agree with the President when she says that it’s a good time to do that.

I disagree with the President when she says that it’s a good time to do that.

Opinions can be made stronger by using adverbs such as definitely, firmly, truly, strongly or really.
I firmly believe that the future will be better than the past.
They really dislike what the president said.
I strongly disagree with you.

When an opinion is given, it’s always a good idea to explain it. Use because and since.

I strongly disagree with banning mobile phones at school because they are a great 
learning tool.
I think it’s a good idea to ban mobiles at school since they are very distracting.

People have different roles in the media. Usually, hosts and reporters tell the news. Panellists give their opinions 

Now you know how to express your opinion.

Share your thoughts in a radio programme!




